I can sip on a coffee.
Well, I think the question that... Okay, to go back a couple of steps, when I think of who I write for, or for whom I write,
I say nowadays, I write for myself.
But when I say myself, I don't mean a narrow sense of self.
An African-American male, born in 1941, grew up in Pittsburgh.
I mean that part of me, but I also mean the guy who studied 18th century literature.
The guy who read Faulkner, G.S.
Eliot, and Virginia Woolf.
The guy who played basketball, the guy who grew up in home work, mostly in an all-black neighborhood, the guy who lived in Spain.
There were no black people around.
When I think of who I am, I think of the fact that it's very, very important to me that my mother and my aunts could read my books.
They don't read literary fiction, but I want them to be able, or they don't read much of it, but they're intelligent women, and they are good readers, and I want them to be able to enjoy the books, maybe not all the books, maybe not every aspect of the book,
I include them when I say me.
So it's like the multifaceted me.
It's the me that Whitman talks about when he, you know, I sing America.
So that's my life, it's me.
and all the facets and elements that go into the material.
Yes, yes.
You mentioned, or of course the region that you left is quite about, that is,
It's a homework that for me, I want to keep expanding.
I don't want the boundaries to be physical.
I want to suggest that the boundaries of Homewood are infinite.
That you can begin to tell stories or write stories about Homewood and find yourself in ancient roots or find yourself
or find yourself on the moon, that any community is an imaginative enterprise as well as an enterprise of bricks and boards and material stuff and who does what kind of job and how much money people make.
The core of my community is immaterial and it has to do with the core of Homewood, as I see it, is immaterial.
Non-material.
And it has to do with the songs, it has to do with the dances, it has to do with the preachers and the way they prayed.
It has to do with the incredible networks of women who take care of the children, as well as drugs, disease, and AIDS, and violence.
But it's a community of the imagination that the people I know very well transferred to me, made me aware of by the stories that they're told.
the ways they acted.
I used to think that stories were basically finger exercises in getting you ready for the longer stuff.
But since I've tried to write volumes of stories,
It's a collective volume of stories.
I have more respect for the form.
I see them as very different, demanding different things of the writer, affecting a kind of different relationship with the reader, and maybe equally as hard.
My preference still is the novel.
Maybe because you can make more mistakes in a novel.
Or the mistakes make it more interesting.
The mistakes make it more interesting.
It's just like you can watch...
Go watch a college game, and the level of skill is nowhere near that as pro.
But yet the college game is more interesting sometimes, just because they screw up.
It's unpredictable.
When did you run your school?
Penn, University of Pennsylvania.
But we could play with anybody.
I mean, no, we couldn't play with anybody.
We almost could play with anybody.
We weren't big enough to play with the really best team.
We'd give them a battle for three quarters, and they'd wear us down the best way.
Country-wide, yeah.
We won the Big Five one year while I was there, and that includes Temple and St.
Joe and LaSalle.
And they were...
At least one or two of those teams was ranked in the top ten.
We're talking also back in the dark ages.
They were even better.
More All-Americans, more ranked teams.
Oh, no, this is basketball.
You told me you played football.
No, football was my favorite for a while in high school.
Of course, the Penn teams were wonderful.
And then I coached with the teams that went to the final four or five teams.
I mentioned it earlier, but I didn't play football in college at all.
I never finished the high school season in football.
I always got hurt one way or another.
And then I figured maybe somebody's trying to tell me.